#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options false
\begin_modules
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 0
\use_mhchem 0
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
Groundwater modeling with ModAEM
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "cha:modeling-with-modaem"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
How do I build an analytic element model with ModAEM? How does ModAEM work?
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Using ModAEM is much like using any other analytic element code.
 Somehow, the modeler constructs a script file that controls the creation
 of the model, first defining the aquifer properties and their distribution,
 then adds elements to the aquifer that simulate various features in the
 flow system, such as rivers and wells.
 The script file also directs the solution of the model problem and uses
 various analytical tools to extract results as grids, trace streamlines,
 and write reports.
 Onc
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
About the AEM
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This section introduces some important principles of analytic element models,
 with the purpose of introducing the new ModAEM user to analytic elements.
 Those who are interested in the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

gory details
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 of analytic elements should see Strack, 1989.
 For a more complete discussion of modeling issues with analytic elements,
 please see Haitjema, 1995.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
What is an analytic element?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The analytic element method is based on the superposition of analytic functions.
 An 
\emph on
analytic element
\emph default
 is a mathematical function that may be superimposed with other analytic
 elements to create a complete solution for a groundwater problem.
 In practice, two--dimensional, steady--state analytic elements come in
 two varieties,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
Elements
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

that
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

satisfy
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

Laplace's
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

Equation 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Discharge potentials 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Example solutions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Analytic element functions and superposition
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Boundary conditions for complex models
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Using the AEM
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Keep it simple
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Stepwise modeling approach
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Gotchas and troubleshooting
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
