#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass book
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Chapter

Analysis modules
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{cha:Analysis-modules}

\end_inset 


\layout Section

Generating grids of model results (module GRI)
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:gri-module}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Module GRI provides a facility for the construction of grids (e.g.
 for contour plotting) in a format compatible with SURFER
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
texttrademark
\end_inset 

, Matlab
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
texttrademark
\end_inset 

, or other software packages.
 Within the grid module, the window to be gridded must be specified, along
 with the number of points on the long axis of the grid.
 
\layout Standard

5.7.1 Selecting the output file type (opt directive) The opt directive instructs
 the grid module which type of output file to create.
 Usage:
\layout Standard

opt grid-type The opt directive expects one parameter, as follows.
 grid-type Choose surfer for an ASCII SURFERTM-compatible grid (with the
 extension .grd) and matlab for
\layout Standard

an ASCII MATLABTM-compatible grid (with the extension .m).
 If the OPT directive is omitted, the grid-type will default to surfer.
\layout Standard

Example To select a MatlabTM-compatible output file, issue the directive
\layout Standard

opt matlab
\layout Standard

5.7.2 Defining the grid window (win directive) Defines the window to be gridded.
 Usage :
\layout Standard

win (x1,y1) (x2,y2) The win directive expects the following parameters.
 (x1,y1) The lower-left corner of the (rectangular) region to be gridded.
 (x2,y2) The upper-right corner of the (rectangular) region to be gridded.
\layout Standard

Example
\layout Standard

win (-100.0,-100.0) (100.0,100.0)
\layout Standard

sets the lower-left and upper-right corners of the window for the GRI module
 at the coordinates 
\backslash 
Gamma 
\backslash 
Delta 
\backslash 
Gamma 100
\backslash 
Delta 
\backslash 
Delta 
\backslash 
Gamma 100
\backslash 
Theta and
\backslash 
Gamma 
\layout Standard

100
\backslash 
Delta 100
\backslash 
Theta , respectively.
\layout Standard

5.7.3 Choosing the grid resolution (dim directive) Sets the number of grid
 points along the long axis of the window.
 Usage:
\layout Standard

dim npts The dim directive expects one parameter as follows.
 npts The number of evenly-spaced points to compute along the long axis
 of the rectangular grid region.
 Module GRI
\layout Standard

will compute an appropriate number of points along the short axis to ensure
 that the grid has regular spacing in both directions.
\layout Standard

Example To make grid(s) with a resolution of 50 points along the long axis,
 issue the directive
\layout Standard

gri 50
\layout Standard

5.7.4 Computing a grid and writing it to a file (directives hea, pot, psi,
 q_x, and q_y) Once the grid type, grid region, and grid resolution are
 specified (see the directives opt, dim, and win above), grid files may
 be computed for a variety of model output values.
 Currently the following directives are available:
\layout Standard

HEA - Create a grid of heads Usage:
\layout Standard

hea base-filename generates a grid of the potentiometric head f on the file
 base-filename_head.grd (or base-filename_head.m)
\layout Standard

POT - Create a grid of potentials Usage:
\layout Standard

pot base-filename generates a grid of the discharge potential 
\backslash 
Phi on the file base-filename_potential.grd (or base-filename_potential.m)
\layout Standard

PSI - Create a grid of stream functions Usage:
\layout Standard

psi base-filename generates a grid of the streamfunction 
\backslash 
Psi on the file base-filename_psi.grd (or base-filename_psi.m)
\layout Standard

Q_X - Create a grid of discharges in the x-direction Usage:
\layout Standard

q_x base-filename generates a grid of the total aquifer discharge in the
 x-direction potentiometric heads on the file base-filename_qx.grd (or base-filen
ame_qx.m)
\layout Standard

Q_Y - Create a grid of discharges in the y-direction Usage:
\layout Standard

q_y base-filename generates a grid of the total aquifer discharge in the
 y-direction on the file base-filename_qy.grd (or base-filename_qy.m)
\layout Section

Streamline tracing (module TR0)
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:tr0-module}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

5.8 Module TR0 - Trace The TR0 directive instructs ModAEM to enter the trace
 module, which is used to trace 2-D streamlines.
 The TR0 directive must have a matching END directive.
 Within the TR0 module, the following directives are valid:
\layout Standard

WIN - Set the tracing window.
 Default tuning parameters are derived from the window size.
\layout Standard

TUN - Set tuning parameters Sets tuning parameters for the tracing algorithm.
 Usage:
\layout Standard

TUN step prox frac small step The base step size prox The proximity (in
 terms of the current step size) to boundary conditions for reducing the
 step size frac The factor for step size reductions small Smallest allowable
 step size
\layout Standard

TIM - Specify maximum time allowed for particle tracing POI - Release a
 single particle at the specified location LIN - Release particles along
 a line N particles along a line
\layout Standard

GRI - Release a grid of particles in the sub-window WL0 - Release N particles
 in reverse from the well bore of a WL0 (discharge-specified well) element.
 WL1 - Release N particles in reverse from the well bore of a WL1 (head-specifie
d well) element.
\the_end
